the 4-day truce between Israel and Hamas
has been extended for another two days
that's according to the Qatari foreign
Ministry qatar's one of several
countries mediating between Israel and
Hamas to secure the release of hostages
taken in the Hamas Terror attacks of the
SE 7th of October several groups of
hostages have been exchanged for
Palestinian prisoners in recent days the
release of hostages by Hamas on Sunday
means that 39 Israeli women and children
have now been freed under the truce deal
Hamas agreed to hand over 50 hostages in
total during the 4-day truce under
separate agreements Hamas has freed
another 19 uh during the truce most of
them Thai citizens who were working in
Israel and abducted during the Hamas
attack Israel says more than 240 people
were seized by Palestinian militants on
October the 7th at least 180 are still
being held in Gaza those already
released have been reuniting with
friends friends and families the truce
between Israel and Hamas has given Garen
some respite from the fighting and
bombardment we're here now from one
extended family that made its way to a
Garen beach for a visit that was all too
brief a chance to breathe without the
smoke and stench of
War there is space at this
beach for the AL sulan Family so
different from their space at a facility
for displaced
Gins for a brief moment in time children
can play the fear of violence set
aside but not for their parents
reflecting on who and what has been lost
since the October 7th Hamas Terror
attacks on Israel that spurred massive
Israeli
retaliation we came to the beach to take
a breather and to change the depressing
and uted environment we in people come
to the beach to relax to swim for their
children to have fun take food with them
but we're so depressed we're on the
beach but we want to
cry one family member though has finally
gotten a chance to fish during the truce
and hopes he can keep the clan fed for
longer the uncertainty goes well beyond
the end of the
truce the Al Sultan family likes so many
on this bit of gazen Beach don't know if
they have homes to which they can return
When the fighting truly
ends let's pick this up with our Middle
East analyst shaie ranis welcome back to
the studio uh shaie so Phillis in what
else do we know about this extension
well it was the formula that was agreed
upon uh and it is happening we know that
the Americans have also confirmed that
we have an official statement from the
White House we know Biden was speaking
to the qataris himself to the prime
minister of Qatar in order to ensure
this extension um so it's going to be
another 48 Hours of ceasefire more
trucks more Aid coming into Gaza Strip
more uh Israeli hostages released 20 of
them at all in total and in exchange
Israel will release 60 prisoners um
Palestinian prisoners kept in Israel
prisons all right and um both parties as
we've been uh hearing all day both
parties seem to be open to this
extension in one way or another so why
has it taken so long well first and
foremost there's a lot of Suspicion a
lot of Hil a lot of lothing between the
sides and nobody wants to be too obvious
you know nobody want to seems too eager
uh everybody's trying to toughen up
their positions uh but also there's
always you know on the Israeli side they
feel like Hamas is trying to always play
games and sort of manipulate them you
know today there's been a bit of a mixup
not more than a bit of a mixup with the
names we've seen that the second day
have almost brought to the collapse of
the deal s with the names this is the
the names of the hostages to be to be
released today correct I mean uh Hamas
keeps claiming it doesn't have access to
all of those held in Gaza that some of
them are held by other organizations in
Gaza mostly the Islamic Jihad uh some of
them are also held We Know by by
families by by Clans that are you know
strong Clans in Gaza so Hamas is um
claiming it doesn't really have control
over all of them uh it did manage to say
now it says that it managed to get a
hand over at least 20 more of those
children and mothers this is also the
category we're talking about there's
many people held in Gaza there's a
difference to who we're talking about
soldiers men they're not part of those
deals um because they're also not part
of the prisoners exchange um it seems
like now it's finally Hamas is willing
to bring 20 more of those children and
and their mothers um and so so Israel of
course is interested in releasing as
many hostages as possible um and again
we always need to be very careful
everything here is so fragile and
everything can collapse at any moment uh
but hopes are that this uh extension is
going to be agreed upon very very soon
and 20 more because 10 each day on this
two-day extension so it's it's hostages
plus um Aid coming in and are we looking
at this the same three to one uh
Palestinians for for Israelis correct
and this is the framework that was you
know worked on already when this deal
started but not nobody wanted to give it
too long you know again because we're
talking about the hostility the dip
hostility within the two sides you know
everybody said okay let's take it one
day at a time let's see where it takes
us even after this extension there will
be still 23 more children and mothers
left and and women left in Gaza so good
chances we will try to see the the both
Kamas and Israel going for another
extension to bring those 23 out the
problem will start what what once we
start negotiating the is the side start
negotiating the next category of
hostages mainly the men uh the solders
soldiers UMAS sees a soldier anybody
who's ever served in the military forces
even if they're 70 years old and they
have not you know they're out of active
duty for 50 years so that would be a
different category that will require far
more rigorous negotiations and um it's
going to have to worked out some kind of
different framework and will will that
those talks already have started because
you know you don't have to be a genius
to see that this is a predictable
process correct we know the Americans
are pushing there uh we know all sides
kind of want to talk about it Israel
claims it's uh adant to go back into uh
the offensive they want to work through
the military options they have because
they and they've been quite clear
haven't they we we've heard from the the
military spokesman when this is over we
will exactly we will start the bombing
campaign Isel Works under the premise
that it's only the heavy pressure that
they've put on Hamas in the bombardments
in Gaza so far that have brought Hamas
to agree to the deal so far and they
want to make sure that they get better
deals you know better better conditions
to release the rest of the hostages and
feel that the only way to get that is
through ground maneuvering is through
military operation in the southern part
of the Gaza Strip right the uh what has
the the public response been so far to
this series of releases well these are
days of you know Israel's uh
National mood is so it's like it's like
an a never- ending roller coaster you
know with every delay everybody's you
know everybody is so uh taking it so
emotionally these hostages that campaign
for their release have became nationally
wide so popular people take it
personally even those who are not in
direct contact with the hostages there's
in general a a a support for for
extending the truth in order to bring
more of them home but there's also a bit
of a concern that the international
pressure will be so big that Israel will
be forced to stop fighting and this is a
big fear in Israel okay thank you for
that for now uh DW Middle East analyst
shie resigns thank you so much for more
we're joined Now by journalist Sami so
in Jerusalem Sami the truce has been
extended what happens
next so the truce uh will enter now a
phase of two days uh in which Hamas will
be releasing uh along these two days 20
prisoners again we're talking about both
women and children uh this time they
will have to be get they will have to
get them from various
organizations families and so forth who
are holding them at the same time Israel
will be releasing prisoners that are
held in Israeli prisons again belonging
to the same category of both women and
children and uh more trucks will be
coming into the Gaza Strip especially to
the north bringing
Aid Sami this deal came through very
last minute why has has it been so
challenging to extend the
agreement well with Hamas is saying that
they had difficulties with finding some
of these hostages because they're not
held in in the hands of Hamas the groups
that we've seen being released so far
were held by Hamas in fact one of the
leaders of Hamas in gansan met them and
spoke to them in in Hebrew and the ones
that are going to be released in the
coming days many of them are being held
by other factions uh there was also
disagreements in terms of the the trucks
coming up to the north of the Gaza Strip
and the also in terms of the
Palestinians being released uh but after
all the both the karies and the
Egyptians were pushing pushing hard to
make this happen could this truce
eventually lead to a permanent
ceasefire
yeah well if we judge the words
[Music]
of one of the Hamas leaders who was
interviewed today on a jazer he said
that his organization would like to
extend this truth and that he would like
to have other uh categories being
released that means not only women and
children but of course then we're
talking about a a different kind of
ratio is expected
that Hamas will be demanding a higher
number of Palestinian prisoners to be
released we know that Qatar Egypt very
much would like to extend this
ceasefire uh at the same time Israel has
said that it wants to go back to its
military campaign and the question is
how will it be able to continue with its
campaign when 80% of gazans have already
been displaced according to unra figures
how will they be able to wage this
campaign when they say they want to
topple Hamas in these kinds of
conditions that was samial in Jerusalem
thanks Germany says it will provide
millions of Euros to help rebuild the
Israeli communities destroyed by the
October 7th Hamas Terror attacks German
president Frank vadin Maya made the
announ during a visit to Israel's kib
just a few kilometers from Gaza which
was one of those
targeted a difficult trip but a
necessary one this is how German
president steinmeier described his visit
to Israel a trip which left him
searching for words when he visited a
kibuts destroyed by Hammer terrorists on
October the 7th the ruins behind
us they are the Silent Witness
of what had happened
here and
uh it's not easy to find the words to
describe what we heard from
those who have the knowledge and who
were and those who were
witnessing the Deeds the murders the
killings the rapes of the Hamas here on
the 7th of October
but Stein Meer the country's head of
state also wanted to show Germany
support with more than words he said the
parliament in Berlin the bundestag would
provide financial assistance worth 7
million EUR next year to help rebuild
the kibuts some of the kibot residents
showed their gratitude for Germany's
solidarity and also a vote of confidence
in our ability to rebuild our
lives um giving us um something to dream
of and to look forward to so we can have
hope that we will have a a future and it
will be a good future Stein meire as
well as other German officials have
shown their steadfast political support
for Israel in the war at the same time
schan Maya stressed a long-term solution
must also include more future prospects
for the Palestinians the German
president is set to continue his Middle
East tour with a short visit to a man
and
Qatar